Okay, so before we talk about Route 53
we have to talk about what is a DNS?
So, this is a basic level lecture,
but at least it will help you understand how DNS works.
And this is something you've been using
behind the scenes every day
but you don't know about it exactly.
So, let's have a look.
So, a DNS is a domain name system, and what it will do
is that it will translate human friendly hostnames
into the target server IP addresses.
For example, when you type in your web browser,
www.google.com, it will in the end
give you back an IP address and this is IP address
that your web browser will be able to access
behind the scenes and get some data back from Google.
So, the DNS is the backbone of the internet.
It is a way for you to understand
how to translate these URLs, these hostnames into IPs.
So, there is a hierarchical naming structure for DNS
and the idea is that at the root
of www.google.com for example, there is the .com,
but then there is example.com which is a bit more precise.
Then, www.example.com or api.example.com.
So, all of these are going to be the hierarchy
of your domain names.
Next, we need to define a little bit
of terminology regarding your DNS.
So, there is a domain registrar.
This is where you're going to register your domain names
and it could be Amazon Route 53, or it could be GoDaddy
or any other domain registrar you can find online.
Then you have DNS Records and they have different types
and we'll have a look at them in detail in this section.
So it could be A, AAAA, CNAME, NS, et cetera, et cetera.
Don't worry, we'll see those in detail in this section.
A zone file which contains all the DNS records.
So, this is how to match these hostnames
to IPs or addresses.
Name servers is servers
that will actually resolve the DNS queries.
And we'll have a look at them as well in this section.
Top level domains which is .com, .us, .in, .gov, .org,
et cetera, et cetera.
Second level domain which is amazon.com and google.com.
So you can see there are two words in between a dot.
And so if we take a look for example
at this FQDN, so fully qualified domain name,
we have http://api.www.example.com.
Okay?
So, the last dot the end is called the root
and it is the root of all the domain names.
Then the .com,
so .com is your TLD, so that's your top level domain.
The example.com is going to be your second level domain.
Then we have www.example.com.
That's your subdomain.
api.www.example.com is your FQDN,
your fully qualified domain name.
HTTP is going to be your protocol
and all these things together is going to be your URL.
So, now that we know a little bit of terminology,
let's have a look at how DNS works.
So we have a web server, and let's say for example
that we have an IP, it's a public IP,
could be an EC2 instance, for example.
And the public IP is 9.10.11.12
and we want to be able to access this
using the example.com domain name.
So, we're going to register this example.com domain name
on one of our servers for the DNS.
But let's see how the computer, your web browser,
can access it and can get that response.
So, your web browser is going to want to access example.com.
And to do so, it's going to ask its local DNS server.
"Hey, do you know what example.com is?"
Now, this local DNS server is usually assigned
and managed by your company or assigned
by your internet service provider dynamically.
And if the local DNS server has never seen this query before
what it's going to do is first ask the root DNS server
managed by the I-C-A-N-N, the ICANN organization
and is going to say, "Hey, do you know what's example.com?"
Which is the first server that's going to be asked.
And the Root DNS Server is going to say,
"I've never seen it, but I know .com."
So, .com is NS, so it's an NS Record Name server
and go see 1234 this public IP.
So, this is saying to local DNS,
"Hey, I don't have this answer
but I'm getting you a little bit closer to your answer
because I know the .com domain,
and the .com domain name server has this IP, 1234."
So the local DNS server saying, "Okay, good.
Now I'm going to ask the top level domain."
So the .com domain server at 1234.
"I'm going to ask for the answer of my query."
So, this is another domain managed by I-A-N-A, the IANA
and the example.com, okay, is going to be asked again
to this DNS server.
So, do you know about example.com?
And the DNS server is gonna say,
"Hey, I do know about example.com.
I don't have the answer to your query right away.
I don't know which record it is,
but there is a server called example.com that I know about
which is at 5.6.7.8, that's a public IP
that you should ask the answer to your question.
So, local DNS server is then going go to our final server
which is the second-level domain DNS server
and this is a server that is going to be managed
by your domain registrar.
So it could be, for example, Amazon Route 53 and so on.
So the DNS server is gonna say,
"Hey, do you know about example.com?"
And the DNS server will have an entry for example.com.
And so it will say,
"Hey, yes, of course I know example.com."
And it turns out that example.com,
I know that it's an A record
and that the result of it is the IP 9.10.11.12.
So, the DNS server now knows the answer
by recursively asking DNS servers
and finding the most specific one.
And then it says, "Okay, hey, yes.
I'm going to cache that answer right away
because I want to be able to,
if someone is asking me again for example.com
I want to get it right away, give them the answer."
So, it's going to send back the answer into your browser
and your web browser now has the answer
and using this IP address
then is going to be able to access your web server.
So, this is how DNS works.
So, you've been using DNS behind the scenes
all along all your life.
For example, when you access www.google.com
you're using DNS or any website.
But now we see how the DNS queries work.
So, this is just some background knowledge
because now we're going to go into Route 53
and learn how to manage a DNS server on our own.
So I hope you liked it
and I will see you in the next lecture.